Writing is not easy, especially when it comes to blogging and content creation. It might not scare you off if you love writing essays in your academic life, but for someone like me, (who used to hate writing long-form essays and assignments), it is really a painstaking task.

It would take your precious hours and still the end results might not be as satisfactory as you expected. What it all boils down to is that you need to employ a solid writing strategy before sitting down to write a long-form article.

I started my writing career with ghostwriting for different websites. The set word count for each post was 1000 words. I used to spend my whole day writing one article.

But then I set a goal for writing two articles in a day within a limited time frame. The results were amazing. And now, writing a 1000 word’s post cannot scare me off that easily.

Wondering how? It’s a simple strategy. Read on further and you will be surprised at how easy it is. I hope it works better for you than it does for me.

So, let’s dive straight into it.

Avoid the Writer’s Block with a Pre-Planned Proceduralization
Do you know what is the biggest mistake people make? They open up a text editor, add a new document file and then think where to start. Writer’s block is the worst.

Seeing a blank screen in front of you already makes you half lost. Believe it or not, you are more creative and efficient while working under a time constraint. But here is the catch, you can write your best when you already have a clear writing strategy in mind.

This includes some developing tactics that cover everything, straight from the article title to the end line of the article. That said, you find yourself extra boosted while writing relevant and useful stuff, and make it at the end with excellency and effectiveness.

That’s what works for me. And believe me, it works wonders. Well, here’s what I do.

Create a Masterpiece Article in Just 4 Easy Steps
Begin with the headline.
This provides you with a good handle on the subject matter of your content and assures that whatever you write follows the title and is relevant and on-topic.

Then create the hook.
This is the opening few paragraphs of the article, that will catch the reader’s interest and turn their focus on reading all the way to the conclusion.

Outline the rest of the article.
Make sub-heads for each section. The subheadings must be brief and informative describing what will be mentioned in each section.

Write the post.
You’ll be shocked at how easy it is to write the inner text if yo